# Changelog - TypeScript Masterclass Course - From Beginner To Advanced

All notable changes to this course will be documented in this file from **18 July, 2024** onwards.

## [1.3.0] - 2024-09-05

> [!IMPORTANT]
> TypeScript Version - 5.5.5
> Update Date: 5 September, 2024

### Added

The following sections and lectures have been added or updated in this update of the course.

### Added

1. **Namespaces and Modules**:

   - Introduction to Namespaces: Learn the foundational concepts of namespaces in TypeScript.
   - Starting With Namespaces: Practical applications and coding with namespaces.
   - Namespaces In Multiple Files: Organize large codebases effectively using namespaces across multiple files.
   - Working With ESM Modules: Integration of ESM modules with TypeScript.
   - Mixed Module Interoperability: Ensure seamless interaction between CommonJS and ESM modules in your projects.

2. **Declaration Files**:
   - Transitioning JavaScript to TypeScript: Convert JavaScript code to TypeScript with essential techniques.
   - First Declaration File: Create and utilize your first TypeScript declaration file.
   - Reusable Types With Interfaces: Enhance code reusability and maintainability using interfaces.
   - Function Overloads With Declaration Files: Learn to use function overloads to enrich function capabilities.
   - Using Namespaces In Declaration Files: Optimize organization by using namespaces within declaration files.
   - Declaration For Classes: Define class shapes with TypeScript declaration files.
   - Ambient Declarations: Understand and apply ambient declarations in your projects.
   - Using @Types Packages: Manage external type declarations seamlessly.

---

# Changelog - TypeScript Masterclass Course - From Beginner To Advanced

All notable changes to this course will be documented in this file from **18 July, 2024** onwards.

## [1.2.0] - 2024-08-05

> [!IMPORTANT]
> TypeScript Version - 5.5.5
> Update Date: 5 August, 2024

With this version all the lectures on TypeScript have been made complient to **TypeScript version** - [5.5.5]. This update focuses on following improvements:

- Move towards making the course fully compliant towards the most recent version of TypeScript.
- Add new lectures for most recent version of TypeScript.
- Restructure the lectures and course sections for more videos and concepts for an in-depth coverage of each topic.
- Update the quality of video and audio.
- Better presentations for delivery of concepts.
- Deprecate lectures that do not adhere to newer standards.

### Added

The following sections and lectures have been added or updated in this update of the course.

#### Classes In TypeScript

- What Are Classes
- Running TypeScript In Browser
- Creating First Class And Instance
- Constructor Function
- this Keyword
- Classes as Types
- Optional And Readonly Fields
- Inheritance With Classes
- super Method
- Practice: Classes Exercise 1
- Solution: Classes Exercise 1
- Access Modifiers
- public Members
- protected Members
- private Members
- Which Access Modifier to Use?
- Overriding Methods In Child Classes
- Shorthand For Constructor
- More Control Over Classes
- Using Mutators - Setters
- Using Accessors - Getters
- Static Members
- Understanding Static Blocks
- Generics With Classes
- Generics Use Case
- Concrete Implementation With User Type
- Intro To Mixins
- Composing New Classes With Mixins
- Practice: Classes Exercise 2
- Solution: Classes Exercise 2

#### Decorators

Mad decorators section compliant with TypeScript version **TypeScript version** - [5.5.5] and added following new lectures while updated all the previous lectures.

- Introduction to Decorators With Presentation
- Decorator Composition and Evaluation

---

## [1.1.0] - 2024-07-18

Starting with a major update to the course and moving the direction of updateing teh course to comply with and teach the most recent version of TypeScript. At the moment working towards complying all lectures to **TypeScript version** - [5.5.3]. This update focuses on following improvements:

- Move towards making the course fully compliant towards the most recent version of TypeScript.
- Add new lectures for most recent version of TypeScript.
- Restructure the lectures and course sections for more videos and concepts for an in-depth coverage of each topic.
- Update the quality of video and audio.
- Better presentations for delivery of concepts.
- Deprecate lectures that do not adhere to newer standards.

### Added

The following sections and lectures have been added or updated in this update of the course.

#### TypeScript Introduction

- What Is TypeScript
- Setup Development Environment
- Setting Up TypeScript Compiler
- How TypeScript Helps You Catch Errors
- Your First TypeScript Program
- Deep Dive into the JavaScript File Generated by TypeScript
- TypeScript Type System

#### Primitive Types

- Introduction To Primitive Types
- string, number and boolean
- null and undefined Types
- bigint Type
- symbol Type
- Practice: The Primitive Types
- Solution: The Primitive Types

#### Exploring Type System

- Introduction To TypeSystem
- any Type
- unknown type
- Type Alias
- Inference, Annotation, Duck Typing and Declaration
- Union Types
- Quick Conditional Types
- Understanding Type Hierarchy
- Type Casting
- Practice: Type System
- Solution: Type System

#### Objects In TypeScript

- Introduction To Objects
- Working With Objects
- Type Alias For Objects
- Nested Objects
- Index Signatures With Objects
- Optional And Readonly Properties
- Union Types With Objects
- Discriminating Unions
- Intersection Types
- Practice: Strictly Type an Object
- Solution: Strictly Type an Object

#### Arrays And Enums

- Introduction To Arrays And Enums
- Strictly Typing Arrays
- Tuples
- Readonly Arrays and Tuples
- Enums
- Enums are Available At Runtime
- Enums Vs Objects
- Computed Enums
- Enums as Unions and Types
- Practice: Arrays and Enums
- Solution: Arrays and Enums

#### Functions

- Declaring Functions
- Default and Optional Parameters
- Custom Parameters And Return Types
- Function Call Signatures
- Anonymous Functions
- void and never Types
- Async Functions
- Rest Parameters And Arguments
- Parameter Destructuring
- Introduction to Function Overloading
- Function Overloading In TypeScript
- Practice: Functions in TypeScript
- Solution: Functions in TypeScript

#### Generics In TypeScript

- What are Generics
- Generic Function Declarations
- Generic and Constraints With Arrays
- Generics With Objects
- keyof Type Operator
- Generic Object Parameters
- Generic Default Values
- Implementing A Polymorphic Function
- Problems With Function Overloads
- Using Generics Instead Of Function Overloads
- Practice: Implement Map Function
- Solution: Implement Map Function

### Removed

The following sections and lectures have been moved to the **OLD SECTIONS** section of the course so that students who are learning from the old course can continue their journey

#### Introduction

- What Is Typescript?
- Installing NodeJS On Your Machine
- Installing TypeScript and Preparing Your IDE
- About Resources Repo
- Your First TypeScript Program
- How TypeScript Helps you Catch Errors
- Deep Dive into the JavaScript File Generated by TypeScript
- Setting Up Auto Compilation

#### All About Types

- Introduction - All About Types
- Introduction to Types
- Intro To TypeScript Playground
- any Type
- unknow Type
- boolean Type
- number Type
- bigint Type
- string Type
- Type Inference in TypeScript
- Object Type
- Type Aliases with type Keyword
- Practice: Create Strictly Typed Nested Objects
- Solution: Create Strictly Typed Nested Objects
- The union types
- Union Types with Primitive Types
- Intersection Types In TypeScript
- Index Signatures
- Arrays in TypeScript
- Tuples
- Read only Arrays
- null and undefined in TypeScript
- void and never types
- Enums
- Practice: Strictly Type A Complex Object
- Solution: Strictly Type A Complex Object

#### Functions In TypeScript

- Introduction - Functions In TypeScript
- Declaring Functions in TypeScript
- Default and Optional Parameters
- Custom Parameters and Return Types
- Function Call Signatures
- Intro to Function Overloading
- Using Same Function With Different Params

#### Generics In TypeScript

- Introduction - Generics In TypeScript
- Polymorphic Implementation - Moving Away from Concrete Types
- Need for Polymorphic Functions
- Problem With Function Overloads
- Introducing Generics
- Where Can you Declare Generics
- Practice: Implement Map Function
